It's time for another Conceptual Aside.
This one is Arrays,
Collections of Anything.
I'll assume that you're already familiar
with the basic concept of arrays,
and perhaps you've seen or
worked with them in JavaScript.
But just to be clear,
an array is a collection that
holds many things inside of it.
So an array can be declared.
Let's just call it arr.
I can either go new Array,
which is a lot to type.
Or I can use the array literal syntax.
Very much like the object
literal syntax except it's
brackets instead of curly braces.
And then I can put my values,
whatever I want,
to be in the array separated by commas.
And JavaScript arrays are zero based
meaning that I then use brackets
to determine what element I want to grab.
And so it'll be 0 for the first one,
1 for the second one,
2 for the third one, and so on.
So we start with 0 and go forward.
So, that's pretty clear for anyone
that's done any programming with arrays.
That said,
JavaScript arrays are a bit different.
Because JavaScript is dynamically typed.
In most programming languages,
an array can hold a list or
a collection of things
of a particular type.
So an array of numbers, or an array
of strings, or an array of objects.
But JavaScript doesn't like that.
It figures out what types
of things are on the fly.
It's dynamically typed.
So I can put whatever
I want into an array.
And I can mix and match each individual
item in an array can be a different type.
So, I might have a 1 number and then my
second one might be a boolean, false.
And, maybe my third one is an object.
All right, let's just give
ourselves a little white space.
Don't be scared by this white space.
It's just making things easier to read,
still works exact same way and
the engine processes it the same way.
Maybe my third one isn't object literal.
So maybe I'll have a name property, and an
address property or something like that.
So I could have an object
sitting in my array.
And then maybe my fourth one
here this is again one of those things
that people find a bit confusing.
But, now that we understand
functions are objects and
I can just use a function expression here.
And then, I've created a function and
stuck it inside my array.
And maybe I'll just
console.log(greeting + name).
So I have a greeting, and
give it a name, it'll output.
Again, this is an expression,
because it's not by itself,
it's inside this array declaration so
the JavaStrip engine understands that this
is creating a function on the fly there.
It's not a function statement.
It's a function expression.
And maybe I'll put one more thing,
a string.
Now I've got this array that contains a
number, a boolean, an object, a function,
and a string.
So if I was to output this,
is this gonna give me an error?
I run it in my browser.
Nope.
A number, a boolean, an object,
a function, a string.
So a JavaScript array can
hold collections of anything.
For that reason we can write lines of
code that look a little thirst and
maybe a little strange, but are quite
interesting and quite simple really.
Remember I have my array,
I can reference an element in it.
So let's say I wanna reference
the function, so it's zero,
1, two, and the third element
in the array so to three.
Now I have a function.
Right here,
this will get that function for memory.
And how do I then run the function?
How do I invoke a function?
Well I invoke it with parentheses.
And this function wants a name variable.
So maybe I'd like to give it this name.
How would I do that?
I can just go to my array,
that's the second element there,
or the third element, rather.
Zero base zero, one, two, so,
it's the third element, so I use a two.
And then .name,
cuz this gives me the object
use the dot operator and it will then,
let me grab the name property.
So I'm passing the name property
of the third item in the array,
to a function that I'm calling
that's the fourth item in the array.
Do you see that?
Looks kind of strange but it works.
I'll just add a space here,
make it look a little nicer there you go.
So arrays can hold anything.
I can reference them and
they can even hold functions.
And I can call them.
This is a neat thing about JavaScripts
dynamic typing and can be useful.
All right, let's move on.